In this lecture, we will add the 404 template to our theme.
Currently, I am viewing the template hierarchy documentation page for the 404 template.
According to the hierarchy, WordPress will search for a 404 file if a 404 file is not present.
The index template is loaded.
Our index template is not suitable for displaying the 404 page.
If we think about it, a 404 page indicates content couldn't be found.
Unlike most pages, the query could not find a post or page for the specified URL.
Therefore, it doesn't make any sense to display a loop.
Let's add this template to our theme.
Switch over to your editor in the templates folder.
Create a file called 44. HTML.
After creating this template, let's begin adding blocks.
I have a separate tab opened with the static version of the 404 template.
As you can see, it's very simple.
We have three rows of text to inform the user that a page couldn't be found.
It's nothing you can't create yourself with heading and paragraph blocks.
For this reason I will give you the template for this page.
I don't want to waste your time creating a page like this when it's extremely straightforward.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a gist with the templates.
Copy the template to your clipboard.
Next, switch back to the code editor.
Paste the template into the file.
Like I said before, there's not much worth mentioning if you were to look through the blocks, most
of them are paragraphs and headings.
Let's try triggering a404 error in our theme.
Open the home page in your browser.
Inside the URL, we're going to add gibberish.
After changing pages, we are presented with the 404 page.
We can consider the new template a success.
Creating templates is very easy.
As long as we follow the naming conventions outlined in the documentation, we can customize pages for
different URLs.
Let's continue working with the hierarchy in the following lecture.